Wording adjustments + iOS case (#2)
explainers-by-googlers/clipboard-contents-id: README.md

### Why a new thing, aren’t other clipboard APIs enough?

In short, without this there's no efficient way to detect clipboard changes.

> To elaborate, let's consider a common use case: Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI). While connecting through remote desktop solutions, users expect the experience between computers to be seamless, which includes the clipboard. Many Clipboard API use cases within VDI environments center around synchronizing the local clipboard with a remote machine, so that:

Reviewer: Is this correct?

```suggestion
To elaborate, let's consider a common use case: Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI). While connecting to a remote desktop using a web browser, users expect the experience between computers to be seamless. Some native applications on the remote side react to clipboard changes before the user explicitly pastes the data, so users are surprised when they copy something locally and the remote side doesn't react. Many Clipboard API use cases within VDI environments center around synchronizing the local clipboard with a remote machine, so that:
```

Author: Yes - added an example of this. What do You think?

### What is the optimal solution then?

> Several platforms (ex. [MacOS](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/uipasteboard/1622103-changecount?language=objc), [Windows](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/api/winuser/nf-winuser-addclipboardformatlistener), [X11](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:ui/base/x/x11_clipboard_helper.cc;drc=d815f515138991af2aa5b1d07c64906fd8a7366b;bpv=1;bpt=1;l=68?gsn=SelectionChangeObserver&gs=KYTHE%3A%2F%2Fkythe%3A%2F%2Fchromium.googlesource.com%2Fcodesearch%2Fchromium%2Fsrc%2F%2Fmain%3Flang%3Dc%252B%252B%3Fpath%3Dui%2Fbase%2Fx%2Fx11_clipboard_helper.cc%238ndnC55hoYsX0PuoXruTyg4VFTFux3LU_qg9KPKIcTE) and [Wayland](https://source.chromium.org/chromium/chromium/src/+/main:ui/ozone/platform/wayland/host/wayland_data_device.cc;drc=d815f515138991af2aa5b1d07c64906fd8a7366b;bpv=1;bpt=1;l=182?gsn=OnSelection&gs=KYTHE%3A%2F%2Fkythe%3A%2F%2Fchromium.googlesource.com%2Fcodesearch%2Fchromium%2Fsrc%2F%2Fmain%3Flang%3Dc%252B%252B%3Fpath%3Dui%2Fozone%2Fplatform%2Fwayland%2Fhost%2Fwayland_data_device.cc%23KBIABXwYhD42mocIlezMjghFMtoChm0IKDja7p09J9o), [Android](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/content/ClipboardManager.OnPrimaryClipChangedListener) and [iOS](http://go/appledoc/uikit/uipasteboard/changecount)) offer efficient ways to track clipboard content changes without directly reading the data. This is often achieved through clipboard sequence numbers or change notifications. The `navigator.clipboard.contentsID()` API aims to leverage these capabilities. It allows websites to request a numeric token (a 128-bit integer) representing the current clipboard state. If this token differs from a previously retrieved one, it indicates that the clipboard contents have changed between the two calls. Importantly, this operation has a constant time complexity (O(1)), independent of the clipboard's size. Therefore, even frequent checks (e.g., on window refocus) remain efficient, even when dealing with large amounts of copied data.

Reviewer: It's good to wrap lines in your explainer so that small changes like this one don't look like you rewrote a whole paragraph.

Author: Reformatted the entire README and set the line wrapping to 120 - should improve the situation for the future (although this PR will be less readable)

In the unfortunate case of anticipated local changes to the clipboard done in the background, this can be improved in two ways:

* Regular polling of the token and invoking a similar handler to the `focus` handler in the snippet above: this is generally not the best solution, but this API should be lightweight enough that it doesn’t create much overhead.

> * Integrating this with `clipboardchange` event in addition (or instead) or the `focus` event: this depends on whether `clipboardchange` event becomes a part of the web standard and requires to somehow ignore the listener call between `write` and `contentsID`.

Reviewer: I'd make the second concern a second sentence, since it's not related to the uncertainty around `clipboardchange`:

```suggestion
* Integrating this with `clipboardchange` event in addition (or instead) or the `focus` event: this depends on whether `clipboardchange` event becomes a part of the web standard.
  This API's design will need to be integrated with the
  `clipboardchange` design to ensure it isn't delivered between
  writing to the clipboard and updating the last-known token value.
```

Author: Not sure how the design could be integrated, as there's no clear way for the browser to correlate `clipboarchange` that originates from the system to `write` - other than maybe adding an option to ignore first event after performing `write`? Amended wording a bit, what do You think?

Reviewer: My theory is that the new version ID should be returned from all clipboard APIs so the `write()` caller gets it before any resulting `clipboardchange` event fires. But the WG might come up with something different. No need to go into details here; pointing out the issue is enough.

- [Andrew Rayskiy](mailto:greengrape@google.com)
- [Ayu Ishii](mailto:ayui@chromium.org)
- [Dominik Bylica](mailto:bylica@google.com)

> - [Jeffrey Yasskin](jyasskin@google.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Jeffrey Yasskin](mailto:jyasskin@google.com)
```
